blog: Add blog post for GSoC'23: Packaging micro-lib (#266)
unikraft/docs: content/en/blog/2023-06-23-unikraft-gsoc-packaging-libs-1.md

+++
title = "Packaging Pre-built Micro-libraries for Faster and More Secure Builds"
date = "2023-06-23T00:20:00+08:00"
author = "Zeyu Li"

> tags = ["GSOC'23","Build tools"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags = ["GSOC'23", "Build tools"]
```

+++
title = "Packaging Pre-built Micro-libraries for Faster and More Secure Builds"
date = "2023-06-23T00:20:00+08:00"
author = "Zeyu Li"
tags = ["GSOC'23", "Build tools"]
+++

<img width="100px" src="https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/assets/media/gsoc-2023-badge.svg" align="right" />

# About me

> - I am Zeyu Li, a second-year master at Guizhou University in China.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am Zeyu Li, a second-year master at Guizhou University in China.
```

Add link to your GitHub page and to the university page.

> - This is my first time being involved in the opensource project, and I am very glad to be able to join this friendly and enthusiastic team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is my first time being involved in the open source project, and I am very glad to be able to join this friendly and enthusiastic community.
```

# GSOC'23: Packaging Pre-built Micro-libraries for Faster and More Secure Builds

## Motivation

> Currently, libraries in kraftkit are accessed from source, either from a remote tarball or Git repository. To speed up builds, pre-built libraries can be made and delivered before the main build process to speed up the overall build of the unikernel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, libraries in [KraftKit](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit) are accessed from source, either from a remote tarball or Git repository.
To speed up builds, pre-built libraries can be made and delivered before the main build process to speed up the overall build of the unikernel.
```

> ## Summary of objectives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Summary of Objectives
```

> The goal of the project is to add a `kraft pkg` implementation. when this project is finished, The specific order of use when building the application is as follows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of the project is to add a `kraft pkg` implementation.
When this project is complete, the specific order of use when building the application will be:
```

>         kraft pkg update  -> kraft pkg  -> kraft build

Reviewer: Add triple ticks before and after this.

The purpose of the `kraft pkg` is to prepack the micro-libraries required by the application. 

> Here is an example. `kraft.yaml` is used to find out which libraries are required, and take `app-nginx` as an example, all I need to do is pull the required versions of the `musl`, `lwip` and `nginx` micro-libraries, check and manipulate them, configure them according to `kraft.yaml`, and then package them into a tarball as a micro-library. To speed up builds, pre-built libraries can be made and delivered before the main build process to speed up the overall build of the unikernel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example.
`kraft.yaml` is used to find out which libraries are required.
Take `app-nginx` as an example;
all I need to do is pull the required versions of the `musl`, `lwip` and `nginx` micro-libraries, check and manipulate them, configure them according to `kraft.yaml`, and then package them into a tarball as a micro-library.
To speed up builds, pre-built libraries can be made and delivered before the main build process, to speed up the overall build of the unikernel.
```

## Progress

> What I've done so far is gradually familiar with the whole project when solving [issue #479](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit/pull/479) . 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What I've done so far is get gradually familiar with the whole project when solving [issue #479](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit/pull/479).
```

> The purpose of this issue is to modify all the error print formats by adding error tracing function. When finishing this issue, all the errors can be located exactly including error line numbers and error information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this issue is to modify all the error print formats by adding error tracing function.
When finishing this issue, all the errors can be located exactly, including error line numbers and error information.
```

> when I solve this issue, I think I've overcome two difficulties. Firstly, it is a collaborative work flow. Secondly, it is the familiarity with the whole project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While solving this issue, I've overcome two difficulties:
* I got accustomed to the GitHub collaborative workflow.
* I improved my familiarity with the whole project.
```

## Problems

> When I doing this issue, it did waste a lot of time for Alexander Jung to help me to print debug info better and do tests for the modification. It really stuck with me for a long time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While working on the issue, I had a lot of support from [Alexander Jung](https://github.com/nderjung) (my mentor).
He helped me with printing debug information better and doing tests for the code update.
This took more time than I expected.
```

> And thanks to Alexander Jung give me some tutorials about how to use `git` and commit PR better. It works for me, but solving conflicts is still a problem for me, I will try to solve it by myself. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am very thankful for Alex's support.
He provided mw with tutorials about how to use Git and the GitHub interface and workflow.
I'm now better accustomed to Git and GitHub, but solving conflicts is still a problem for me.
I will work on improving my skills in solving conflicts. 
```

> ## Next Step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Next Steps
```

> - Finish issue [#479](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit/pull/479)
> - discuss with my mentor about the project details and start to do the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the future I plan to:
- Complete [issue #479](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit/pull/479).
- Discuss with Alex about the project details and do actual work in the project.
```
